	A calm breeze blew through the main street, traveling down the busy avenue and finally petered out, but not before jostling the cap on the head of a single man. His name was unimportant, save for the fact that it was the kind one could find dozens of men sharing it by simply opening a phone book. It was as identifying as saying he was wearing a suit, there were half a dozen of those on that street alone. He had a loving wife and a precious daughter, and yet those were also not unique to him. He was the type of man someone would struggle to pick out of a line, with not a distinguishing feature to his name. And yet he was at peace with his mediocrity, with his interchangeable place of profession, with his unremarkable schedule.
	At least, he was. He knew not to savor the handful of peaceful moments he had left. He strolled down the street, with plenty of time to spare before he was needed. His gait was not quite lazy, but he was in no particular rush. He merely savored the crisp morning air and reached up to keep his cap on as the wind jostled it, turning his eyes to the sky for a brief moment. And that was when something bumped into his shoulder.
	The man turned to catch a glimpse of whoever it was but caught only the retreating figure of the Stranger. It wore a long coat of fine black fabric, accented with delicate golden trim. There was not a single mote of grime upon its enveloping surface, completely hiding the body of the wearer. The face was completely hidden by a high collar and wide hat, obscuring completely the identity of the Stranger. It was a magnificent set of attire, and it took only a moment to sear itself into the man’s mind in a way that would not fade, not until the day he died.
	He stood there a long while as the Stranger slipped into the crowd and out of sight, a polite apology dying on his tongue. The man did not have a word for the sensation he was feeling. Eventually, some resemblance of sense returned to him, and he turned to continue his commute. By the time the clock struck the next hour he had almost forgotten the strange encounter. Almost.
	It was a few days before the passing was dragged back into the forefront of his mind. This time he was once again walking the streets, but he was not alone. There were no obligations tying him down on this day, no overseer awaiting his presence. He was to enjoy a peaceful afternoon, accompanied by his wife and daughter. All was well, for the moment at least.
	He chuckled at his wife’s comment that this outing reminded her of the day they met. But as he took his next breath a blur of black in the corner of his eye caught his attention. Neither his daughter nor wife noticed it, but as he scanned the crowd in front of them, he saw it. The same expertly tailored hat, trimmed with fine gold. And it evoked the same unnamable feeling within his gut. The rest of the Stranger was hidden by the crowd, but while that may have shielded It from sight it did nothing to stop the unease that preceded it.
	Taking an opportunity in the lull of traffic, the Man motioned for his family to cross the street. He earned a quizzical look from his wife. A hasty search for an excuse quickly bore fruit. “The Ice cream truck shall be here soon, and it passes on that side of the road” he provided, earning a sequel of delight from his daughter and a scoff from his wife about too much sugar. And yet they crossed all the same. A quick glance over his shoulder found no trace of the Stranger.
	True to his word, the Ice cream truck soon arrived, and his daughter was soon licking at a frozen treat. That, combined with a chance encounter with a family friend, beat back thoughts of the Stranger from his mind. Instead, his thoughts were on the morning meetup for coffee that he had promised his friend. Even after his friend had departed, his daughters excited ramble on her schoolyard mishaps kept his thoughts firmly away from wide-brimmed hats and hidden faces.
	A pair of days passed before he encountered the Stranger again. He and his friend were sharing an hour together before they had to leave for their respective jobs. The smell of roast coffee permeated the quiet café where they sat, a blanket of familiarity as they spoke on inconsequential matters. 
	But as he took another sip from his cup a figure passed by the window across from him, casting a shadow over his friend’s smiling face as the light was briefly blocked out. It was the same fine coat and wide hat, the Stranger once again.
	The stranger did not pause, and within a few seconds was gone from view. But the lingering feeling lasted far longer. Sensing his unease, his friend set down his own cup and leaned over, policeman’s cap sliding slightly askew on his head. “Are you alright?” he inquired, tilting his head to the side. Doubt warred within the man as the question of what to respond with invaded his mind. Surely this was just a coincidence. Surely this was all in his head. Surely, he didn’t need to worry his dear friend. Surely, everything was fine. Surely….
	His thoughts were interrupted by the sound of shattering ceramic. He became slowly aware of the burning sensation on his feet. His mug lay in pieces on the floor, steaming liquid spreading out underneath him. He could not remember it, but he had let his coffee slip through his hands. He barely registered that his friend had stood up and had called over a waitress, nor the prodding questions on if he was truly alright. Even after apologies to the staff it did not cease.
	He offered a half-hearted assurance that he was of sound mind, that he simply hadn’t been sleeping well. Despite his friends’ unconvinced expression, they prepared to part ways.
	Unbidden, a memory, barely a few months old, rose to the surface. It was a mirror of his current predicament, the smell of coffee in the air, the worn seats of the café… And the stranger passing by the window. It had been there.
	Long after they had parted ways the terrible sensation still lingered. As he sat in his office, staring down at a form that demanded his attention, he could not drive himself to focus.
	Sighing, he put his pen down and stared out the window at the street below. He started to chide himself, feeling like a schoolboy restrained by class instead of the grown man that he was. And yet his mental condemnation was interrupted by a glittering from below.
The afternoon light was catching on a now-familiar hat, hiding its wearer from view. The Stranger was passing by once more. He swung his head around, desperate to banish thoughts of the stranger passerby from his mind, only for his eyes to catch upon his superior in the hall beside him, summoning forth another memory. 
It was the day he was hired, years ago when he had not met his wife and when his daughter had not even been a theoretical. He was young, barely a year out of university, and he had placed his hopes upon this single interview. He remembered the shaking of hands and the bottomless joy as he received the confirmation of his hiring.
	But dread dripped onto that joy like spilled venom, as the memory came into sharper relief and a detail that had eluded him became clear. He had been facing towards the great glass doors in the lobby as he shook his future employers hand, and through those could be glimpsed passerby going about their days. And as he gripped the older man’s hand there passed something cloaked in a fine black coat, embroidered with golden thread, and with a wide hat hiding every inch of flesh. The Stranger had been there.
	Needless to say, he did not accomplish much in the next few hours. Uttering a half-hearted apology to his supervisor, he slipped out into the fading evening sun and practically stumbled home.
	The door to his unassuming home creaked open, the sound like music to his ears. Exhaustion hovered over him like a weighted blanket, the unnamed feeling lurking just below.
	His wife looked up, paintbrush in hand. In her other was one of the delicate figurines she loved to make, all in the forms of various creatures of myth and legend. He smiled weakly as the memory of their first meeting entered his mind, her passionate rambling over the minutia of different paints, modeling, choice of subject, it had all gone over his head, but he had loved listening to her all the same. And yet, in the background he remembered a figure in black slipped by, bringing itself to his attention all these years later. Black, with golden trim.
	He hid his unease with great difficulty, giving his wife a simple greeting before going to check on his daughter, chiding her for sitting too close to the television. Even as the night dragged on the feeling of incongruity refused to fade. A peaceful dinner and light reading did nothing to help. Even hours later, sitting in the dark of his room, sleep evaded him. Normally the rhythmic sound of breathing from next to him would lull him to unconsciousness. 
	Even as he closed his eyes, the figure of the man refused to vanish. It was as if his very eyelids were embossed with that wretched gold trim, preventing him from escaping. Left alone with his thoughts, anything resembling rest remained firmly outside of his grasp.
	His walk down the street the next morning was a far cry from how this had all begun. Rather than a leisurely stroll his gait was strained, and his steps uneven. Rather than quiet bliss at the early morning his eyes darted around like a cornered animal. He caught a flash of black at the corner of his vision and spun around. But there was nothing there.
	So deep was he in his own thoughts that it took three calls for him to notice his friend walking beside him. The Policeman tilted his head in concern, eyes painted with worry. “You feeling okay?” he questioned, but the man placated him with a quick lie. Yes of course he was fine. He was completely fine.
	And yet a mere few hours into his shift his overseer pulled him aside. “Did you sleep well last night?” was his concerned inquiry. And, too exhausted to provide much resistance, he admitted that he had not slept, well or otherwise. “Go home, you have plenty of vacation days in stock. Get some rest” was the demand, not request, that his supervisor put forward.
	That was how he found himself walking home underneath the scorching midday sun. Effort had to be made to not stumble over his own feet, so great was his exhaustion. And as if to taunt him, there strode the Stranger. It was walking directly toward him, and where its face should have been perfectly visible it was instead hidden by shadow, collar, and hat.
	The man refused to acknowledge the interloper. He was not insane, this was just a coincidence. This Stranger was just an odd fellow with excellent taste in attire, nothing more. They passed each other by, without a single glance back.
	And yet at that moment the Ice cream truck neared, it’s signature tune echoing through the quiet street. And that song dragged up the oldest, most infantile memory the man had. Though faded and yellowed like an old photograph, the essence still remained. He was no more than four, his father reaching down to give him a sweet purchased from that same ice cream truck, the elderly driver long since replaced. And as he took his first lick his youthful eyes caught on a figure passing by. A figure in black and gold. And while the truck bore the weathered scars of age, the figure was identical, down to the last thread in that terrible coat. 
	The man stopped in his tracks and spun around. He raced after the receding figure, slamming into a light post on the way. But he barely even noticed the pain as he continued his mad dash.
	His hand closed around the shoulder of the Stranger, and he barely had time to register how cold the fabric was, like the middle of the coldest night. He spun the Stranger around by force, and now they were face to face and he could…
	He stared into where one would expect a face and merely stood there, hand still on the Strangers shoulder. What he saw cannot be put to words, for even the barest of descriptions would be akin to explaining the vastness of the stars to the smallest insect.
	He had time only for a moment of regret. A mere fraction of a second to realize the magnitude of his folly before he merely…stopped. There was no wound, no shrieking, no assault upon him. One minute he was motion and life, the next It was still.
After a long moment It let Its hand fall and continued staring. The Stranger said nothing before turning and walking away.
	What could have once been called a man simply stood there like a marionette with its strings cut as the Stranger vanished into the distance, staring at nothing. When the lunch rush began and the crowd flowed around It, The man still stood there, as unmoving as a statue. Not a single soul seemed to notice this odd sight, shifting their paths ever so slightly to avoid It like water passing around a stone. Even as the sun dipped lower in the horizon and the crowds thinned, It still stood there.
	As the chill of the night swept across the deserted street the isolated figure moved not a muscle, did not shiver, did not react.
	The calm was disrupted by a woman rushing down the street, disheveled and out of breath. Perhaps the person the man used to be would have recognized her. But now Its eyes simply looked forward, not even following her path. Despite moving aside to pass the lone figure she made no acknowledgement of the strange sight. And in a handful of seconds she was gone, and the calm was all that remained.
	When the sun next rose It still stood there, unmoving. Its vacant eyes made no notice of the early crowds, or the unusual number of policemen tracing the road, searching for something. They all simply passed It by, still not acknowledging It. The uncomfortable sun beat down on It as the sun crawled on the side, and It’s face became caked in sweat. And yet It remained indifferent.
	But in the end muscles fail. And days later, as the sun slipped below the horizon It began to quiver. Not under any conscious thought, but merely from the strain of standing for over a day. And in the end its legs failed it and the man toppled over. As It fell It made no attempt to stop or protect Itself. Its head struck the cold pavement with a sickening crack, and Its lifeblood began to seep out. The man Itself made no noise as it lay there, blood pooling beneath it.
	A shout rang out as a shopkeeper, despite staring at the street since the morning, finally noticed the collapsed figure. The half-secured lock fell to the ground as he rushed over the body. But it was far too late.
	His flesh died then, but the man had already been dead for three days.
