Hey y'all, Scott here. These games made me sick. They're that bad. Or maybe I shouldn't lick their discs that much. Video games are the biggest money makers in entertainment today. Over three billion people play video games with many genres that failed to reach an audience in previous years now selling millions of copies with huge dedicated fandoms. We have giant events celebrating the medium. Large assortments of merchandise available in any store you can think of. More games releasing every single day than ever before. Companies acquiring studios for billions. Later shutting down said studios. Mass layoffs across the board.
Launch day disasters. Rising prices.
Anti-consumer practices. And Luigi's Mansion 2 HD. Hey, can you spit on me?
I also love video games. Feels like you can't check in on video game news anymore without being identified as a witness in the process. Something sticky is always going on. Uh whether it's Donkey Kong's price point or uh war crimes. And with every game getting hit with controversies, whether they're justified or not, it just makes for an unpleasant experience staying in the no.
Especially when these controversies are either piss dumb or some of the most serious conversations you could possibly have. And do I want to hear what the gamers think about whailing? I might as well listen because what the hell else is there to talk about video games these days? You ever actually sit down and watch one of that them their game showcase events put on by your best friends? Oh, me and Microsoft go way back. We've been through it all together. Them fucking me over them pissing on my open wounds. Bing. So, I can't wait to see what wonders they have in store for me here. Gosh, that was so my Microsoft.
That sucked. Well, Sony, they know me so well. They know the exact games I love to play. I know they've been a tease.
God, I'm hoping I don't give a shit about this next game. Booyah.
Nintendo.
I'll take anything.
The video game industry has made me cynical as hell. But when it makes so much money, yet it's pumped back into CEO pockets and projects designed to capitalize on trends rather than create genuinely worthwhile experiences. And then when those fail, studios are shut down. Developers are laid off. And the higher-ups have no idea why their stupid fucking dumb fucking shitty trendchasing projects fail after they give themselves a raise for doing nothing while they're sitting on a graveyard of franchises that customers would vastly prefer seeing again as just normal video games. But no, let's try to make more trash all about wasting your money, your time, and their resources. Can you blame me? Well, it's easier than blaming the video game industry itself. It gave me balls. But, you know, this isn't really a new concept. Pretty much every generation this happens. It's just served up a little differently. It's like how brown and gray shooters were the thing back in the Xbox 360 PS3 days with lots of DLC.
Can't forget that. Or cutesy cool mascot platformers on the Super Nintendo and Genesis. You know, lots of studios were forced to make games like this because they were in. And you can find endless accounts of corrupt business practices and horror stories throughout all of gaming history. Though I feel in modern times, we're hitting a breaking point with these practices due to how absurd budgets are for video game projects and how long they take to finish. Makes it so then when companies chase trends, by the time they catch them, it's 5 years later. Nobody cares anymore. And they spend hundreds of millions of dollars for nothing. And what's the type of game that everybody is trying to make that's aiding in the collapse of society? Bad. Live service games. Now, what's that? Bad. Picture this. Your video game never ends. You boot it up and are consistently served new content.
It's almost like it's alive. That's really cool. Yeah, I'm going to be honest with you. The concept of a live service game is honestly incredible.
Your game no longer has a definitive end. It evolves over time. New content added regularly, frequent updates, a community of players experiencing this altogether. That sounds awesome. Might be because I haven't cleaned my ears in a while. But hey, it's almost like I never have to buy another video game ever again. If the one I'm playing never ends, what's the point? I play Dota 2. All right. Well, let's take a look at a successful live service game to see what the hell is going on here. This is Fortnite, and this is my credibility. Damn it, it's gone. Listen, let's be real here. As much as it's easy to clown around on Fortnite because I've seen a 12-year-old say it's cool, I think we're being incredibly disingenuous to downplay how insane of an accomplishment this project is. All right, so it's a free download and booting it up. Like, this is a game platform and a game platform. You got regular Fortnite, Lego Fortnite, Fortnite Festival, Rocket Racing, plus these community creations, all for free.
And they're constantly shaking up the core experience with changes to the map or a flatout brand new one, replacing the old character skins in collaboration with some of the biggest IPs out there.
I can play Weezer on the menu. Can you do any of this in WarioWare Move it?
So then why the hell do I own this? I don't know how many games have been this ambitious delivered upon that ambition while being free to play with basically all in-game purchases being completely superfluous. Only things you got to pay for are the Weezer and the sword. This game is truly free to play. And with the amount of content available, constant updates, and a huge community of players, it feels like you're genuinely a part of something massive when you play this. Now, I don't mean to give off someone please tell Fortnite to fuck me sort of vibes, though. Hey, this is the live service game, but things weren't always like this. Fortnite launched in 2017 as a video game. It was initially an early access release you had to pay money for. Focused on this mode right here, Save the World. Basically, a paid online co-op survival, not free game that cost money where you spent cash to fight off zombies for $40. It wasn't free. Nobody played it.
But later on, they launched this free battle royale spin-off, which became Fortnite's main claim to fame. And this was built upon considerably over well, the coming months, weeks, days. They were updating this thing constantly. And not only were they introducing new features, they were rewarding players for tuning in all day, every day.
Limited time events, cosmetics, items, some that were genuinely a blink and you miss it moment. And to get some of this junk, you had to play a lot. And you could have just put it off because if you did, the rewards you may be working towards wouldn't be available anymore.
Things would happen within the game's world like a meteor popping up. This rift, it spread word of mouth like, "Damn, you got to check in on Fortnite to see what's going on." They really cultivated something special here.
Building upon this consistently from day one for years to the point where I don't really think anybody can beat them yet, they're still losing money in all this.
Obviously, paying developers to keep developing a game compared to a one-and-done project is a fair bit more expensive. But damn, look at Fortnite.
Look how much money you can make from doing something like this. That's what every game company is saying nowadays.
And hey, you got to spend money to make money. Look at Fortnite. That made billions of dollars. So, sure, you can invest hundreds of millions into this live service game project because people obviously love live service games. Look at Fortnite. So, it'll make that money back and then some because look at Fortnite. Yeah, just look at Fortnite.
The video game industry is run by people who know nothing about their products.
They just look at numbers and make decisions based on that. Oh, Overwatch has over 50 million players while our game I'm cheap to make and begging for a sequel has only sold 5 million units.
That's probably because it's not like Overwatch. Listen, I understand the need to experiment with what's wildly successful. I'm not saying these companies shouldn't attempt live service projects. I'm saying they stink at it.
But it's totally worth it to risk it all in a game that's designed from the get-go to cash in on what's popular to attempt to appeal to an audience that will never care about you rather than use that money to make titles that your fan base actually wants. Look, footage is somebody who agrees with this sentiment. Hi, I'm a horrible person. I don't bathe. I smell. I murder for immense pleasure. I stink. So, what exactly is a live service game? Is it just something with consistent updates and in-game purchases? If so, I got some bad news. Well, for me, I'd say it's much like a Denny's. I can't describe one, but I know it when I see it. Found it. Let's start with the main menu. A foot long tab up top, all for me to explore with the shoulder buttons. Oh my god, this game must have so much content if it has tabs. Much like how I must have so many interests. Okay, so we have the store where I can finally get this shit out of my pants. The battle pass.
Oh boy, what's that? They're lucky these pants got two pockets. Oh, and then there's the cosmetics tab, which lets us customize our character with all kinds of stuff we buy from the store. Thank God for cargos.
My character standing right there next to all different kinds of advertisements for better characters. Look at all these events going on. It's like I'm actually doing something. How do I do anything? No, seriously, look at these menus. They're so bloated with a million options, and they use the tiniest buttons and fonts imaginable. Sometimes they'll play a video featuring all the crap in the latest update. Feels like the screen on a slot machine. But for all this junk they're pushing into my face, there must be a huge experience behind all this. I mean, why else would they let me spend hundreds of dollars on cosmetics if the game I use them in isn't worth a damn?
Let's enter a match. I bought cargo shorts for nothing. I feel that many of these live service games have decent gameplay at their core that would work well as well traditional video games. A full single player campaign with actual level designs, maybe local and online multiplayer mode, standard price and release. You know, nothing special, but this live service setup mucks up everything as the entire game is now structured around online multiplayer, content updates, and monetization.
Online multiplayer is great and everything, but when that's all your game is, you better have the content to back it up, but most of these games launch with nothing. Barely enough maps or characters or variety to keep the constant loop of multiplayer interesting. All because you can just wait to put those out in the form of updates. But guess what? That's hard.
Especially when after you launch your live service game, many of the developers are going to be too busy maintaining everything and fixing issues. Plus, the higher-ups want to see revenue spikes as soon as possible. So, it's easier to fart out some cosmetics for obscene prices, all while the substantial content takes longer than expected to finish. And you got to strike while the iron is hot, particularly when that iron is piss cold to begin with. You know, cold like piss. My kidneys are shutting down. You really got to be on it to update these games as quickly as possible to maintain interest. I can't tell you how many games launch with nothing and it takes like two months to get any updates of value. And the core gameplay being fine isn't good enough. You design your game with all this garbage expecting players to keep coming back day in and day out spending all this money on useless junk just to express themselves. And the best you can say about your game is that it's fine. Listen, I play loads of fine games that don't have all this nonsense. Make these many promises. ask me to tune in and play them every single day. So, if you're going to do this, actually do it.
Because nobody understands what goes into supporting these games until they're actually out. Feels like these things are made for somebody who's missing something in their life. Like, seriously, let me ask, why do you think your game is worth investing so much time and money into when there's all these other games doing the same thing but better? It doesn't matter because the investors and CEOs are looking at the handful of live service game successes and going, "Well, damn. That's what the people want. Another Overwatch, Sea of Thieves, Fall Guys, Destiny." Now, here's what the people actually want. Kill me. What the hell is this?
Skull and Bones? Head and fucks? This bozo costs $70 and that's the cheapest version. And for what? Well, Ubisoft claims it's because Skull and Bones, it ain't just a game, it's four of them. A quadruple a title, implying this is a blockbuster release of a quality that no other video game has dared ever reached in which players will have the look of childlike whimsy and joy on their face at what's in store for them. Look at me. Quadruple A. What does the fourth A stand for? Anybody? This game was announced at E3 2017. It released in 2024. And there's nothing wrong with that.
Fuck this game. After being revealed as the spiritual successor to the fan favorite Assassin's Creed 4: Black Flag, the project underwent many changes throughout the years until we settled on this. A lot can happen in 7 years. You can delay your game six times, spend $200 million on it, receive funding from Singapore, and be contractually obligated to release the game and not cancel it. Oh, and you can make it to second grade now. Ubisoft made this a live service game because they don't care. I genuinely think they crossed their fingers that some weirdo would end up liking this game and would spend a ton of their money on it, which would potentially net them some cash in a freak accident sort of way. Because how could anybody think this would be enjoyed in any way? This game is directionless. There's nothing worth a damn in the whole package. You sail the seas, naval battle, find some treasure.
Sail the seas, naval battle, find some treasure. Sail the seas, naval battle, find some treasure. Sail the seas, naval battle, find some treasure.
Sail the seas, naval battle, find some treasure.
Sail the seas, naval battle, find some treasure. Holy fuck add a talking dog or something. I don't know.
Mix it up. A core design element of live service games is a very obvious gameplay loop. They're designed to keep their hooks into you so you keep coming back.
So many of them are pretty repetitive, but various elements help subside that repetition. Leveling up, new abilities, upgrades, collecting more and more loot, well-designed large maps, substantial content being introduced consistently. And you know what? Bless its heart, Skull and Bones does a few of these things. Shame it isn't fun to begin with. For such a big experience, it feels so hollow. Yes, there is depth.
If you really want to dig into this game, I'm sure you could. But for me personally, after playing a few hours, I just don't see it. This game is boring, uninspired slop. There's barely any story, no interesting characters. For a quadruple AAA game, I don't think it looks good. Characters are soulless as husks with stiff animation. The opening cinematic and title screen look thrown together on a budget. And you have the gall to release this at full price with this giant endgame store filled to the brim with overpriced trash costumes. This cost $10. You know what else costs $10?
This. Here you go. But hey, maybe this live service game just isn't for me. You know, I do have different tastes from a Skull and Bones enjoyer. I don't like Skull and Bones. It's okay. You know, Skull and Bones folks call for Skull and Bones Strokes. Maybe I'm more into regular strokes. I smell burnt toast.
It's Square Enix's Foam Stars, a multiplayer game all about gunking up the environment with all kinds of messy color. Now, I know what you're thinking.
Bitch this is Crayola Scoot. Free on PlayStation consoles. A 4v4 online shooter that rips off every last element of Splatoon except the Metacritic score.
It doesn't really feel like they had some great idea here, like they must have been told, "Make a Splatoon-like game, and just make the ink, I don't care." And they are so lucky the developers picked foam. This just isn't satisfying to play. Like flat out, the game isn't fun.
Which, yeah, that's a problem, especially when they're pushing for all these microtransactions. When the game itself isn't very good, how can you expect anybody to care enough to invest in it like this? Well, see, I don't think Square Enix thinks all too deep about it. I think they just look at the most money they could possibly make and say, "That's it. Screw morality and logic. We're Square Enix and we deserve to be making the biggest, most popular, profitable games on the planet. Oh, we're known for classic RPGs. Well, damn it, that's not good enough. We need to capture the heart of the Western gamer.”
So, we got Marvel's Avengers from Square Enix back in 2020, which felt like perfect timing. I mean, right after Spider-Man on PS4, during the height of Marvel's popularity, this should have been a slam dunk. But of course, it was a live service game. Why else would I be talking about it now? Oh, it was actually like Banjo Kazooie Brunty's Revenge. I can imagine a world where we have an Avengers game with a single player story mode campaign on the same level of Spider-Man PS4 that offers local and online co-op as an option.
That world is not here. Our world is the one with Golden Corral. The Avengers game we got is an online only repetitive slog so focused around hooking a bunch of sad saps on its gameplay loop to ensure they squeeze some cash out of them as they're chemically addicted at this point, that it just comes off as desperate and greedy. Like this wasn't done because it made sense for Avengers.
They just wanted to make the most money theoretically possible. But this backfired tremendously. This game doesn't feel designed around being a live service. Feels like they wanted to make a traditional video game, then had to restructure it halfway through. Just 3 years later, they stopped supporting Avengers and removed it from digital storefronts. Was it worth it? Well, if the end goal was to waste nearly a decade of development and $300 million, they fucked it up. They wasted $200 million. Here we have Babylon's Fall, also published by Square Enix and developed by Platinum Games, announced at E3 2018. and hot off the heels of the success both companies had with Near Automata. Man, that game was damn good.
And Square Enix is working with the developer again for a brand new project.
Oh, God damn it. Babylon's Falla was envisioned as if Near Automata never ended. That sounds horrible. You know what made a game like this so beloved?
It ended. You had a complete experience finally crafted to be a video game you'd play, sit down, and go, "Well, damn. I went through that.” Hell, one of Automata's most iconic elements was its multiple endings. You're meant to finish the game, look back at it, and go, "Damn." So, how do you do that but forever? Uh, you make it slow, barely involve any story, keep it incredibly generic, and tone down everything that made Near Automata memorable and enjoyable. So, you can design the gameplay around quantity and not quality. See, I got this book here, and it'll last me forever. Just check how many pages it has. Nothing good lasts forever, which is why Babylon's Fall was meant to. And it couldn't even do that.
Platinum Games invested in a new studio focused entirely on live service games.
They bet big on this, and for it to come out the way it did says more about the game industry's cynical perspective on live service titles than anything. Like, you don't care. You just think, "Oh, well, this is what we need to do to make it big around here." And it just shocks me with how much time, money, and manpower is needed to pour into these projects and they come out so damn raw.
Why does this game look and run like ass? This is a PS5 game, and it looks like a Nintendo Switch version of a PS5 game. Babylon's Fall feels so cheap, cobbled together, and generic, like it was churned out by a machine.
So, why would you ever think this is where I'd want to spend the rest of eternity? Well, why do I keep going back to the Heehaw slot machine at the local casino? Because that shit pays out. But hey, quality don't mean a damn thing as long as somebody's miserable enough to play your game. So, if Babylon's Fall can just stick it out for a bit longer. Give it some more time. Maybe with some update. Six signatures. Babylon's Fall was taken offline in record time, right before its first birthday. And since most live service games are dependent on an internet connection, even if you aren't playing online multiplayer, it doesn't matter.
The servers are down. Babylon's Fall is no longer playable. That had to be one of the most impressive uses of fucking up I've ever seen. All right, let's get this over with. Concord. One of Sony's many attempts at a live service multiplayer game since they were struggling so bad without one. You know, let's be fair here. As quality as Sony's first party output on PlayStation consoles has been throughout the years, I think it's totally reasonable for them to notice a lack of big multiplayer exclusives in their portfolio. PlayStation's thing has primarily been single player experiences with third parties covering multiplayer for the most part. But that all changed with the PlayStation 5 as Sony acquired Bungie for nearly $4 billion. The developers behind one of the biggest online multiplayer games out there is now owned by Sony. That's it. They didn't make Destiny a PlayStation exclusive or any of Bungie's games. They primarily just bought them so they could teach them how to make life service games. Their knowledge alone is worth 4 billion. Did you try just asking them?
I'm sure they would have told you. And with that, Sony committed to launching more than 10 live service games by 2026.
My fuck. This is totally just throwing all kinds of shit at the wall and seeing what sticks. Like, there's no way they ever expected all of these games to do well. Well. For some reason, Sony expected this one of the lot to do wonders. Concord announced via a 50 second teaser during the PlayStation showcase in 2023. This was their last game announcement before closing things out with extended gameplay of Spider-Man 2.
Like, this was directly after the reveal of Bungie's Game Marathon. Like, they thought this was a big deal, even though this trailer showed nothing. Get excited, everybody. It's a development team you've never heard of making a new game with no gameplay, character, storylines, anything shown in the reveal trailer, and it's another live service.
Okay, well, I'll get the first letter of the game tattooed, but I got to see more for the rest. As more was revealed, Concord looked to be a clone of Overwatch. Why not just play Overwatch?
The only things that set Concord apart from Overwatch were derivative of other pop culture franchises like Guardians of the Galaxy or Star Wars. Yet, for some reason, Sony thought this game was going to be their Star Wars. They launched it day in and day on PS5 and PC for a larger player base. Released a limited edition controller. Hell, a bunch of random merch. Hell, they made a deal with the Amazon Prime Anthology show Secret Level where each episode is based on a different video game. Concord got its own one. They did two PlayStation themed episodes. One about PlayStation as a whole featuring God of War, Little Big Planet, Shadow of the Colossus, Helldivers, and one based entirely on Concord. Why? What was it about this IP that had so much potential that Sony reportedly sunk hundreds of millions into development of purchasing the studio who had been working on this game since 2018? Going about all these cross-promotional endeavors, all while I've been waiting for a new Ape Escape game for 15 years. Concord later launched. Well, no, no it didn't. It lasted 2 weeks. That is insane, especially for a game of this magnitude that received physical copies. They issued refunds, immediately halted sales of the game everywhere, and put the game offline while they would figure out what to do with it later. They shut down the studio and will never talk about this ever again. I just read the definition of solution. It's pretty wild how Sony went from overconfident to underconfident in a matter of days with this release. I mean, they could have made Concord free to play or given it a little makeover or something, but honestly, what's the point? It's not like Concord was a bad game or anything.
It was just completely unnecessary. You have a million other games that do exactly this. So, what could you possibly do to drive up interest for a game that isn't interesting? You need a hook with games like these if you're expecting a player base to come back every single day. And as serviceable and technically sound as Concord was, that's all it was. It was a functional, fine video game. And you ought to know that don't mean it's worth playing. I was never upset at Concord's existence. I mean, have you seen how some people responded to it? Now, I may not play video games, but I am not going to play Concord. And to prove it, that's all I'm going to talk about this year. One of the developers behind Concord tweeted back in 2015, "Fuck tax season," which yeah, you know, I I think that's pretty fucked up. You know, taxes pay for a lot, especially as a father.
Uh they pay for the local schools and whatnot. So, they're basically telling me to go fuck myself? Somebody who loves their son more than anything? I hope he's doing okay. I haven't seen him in a few weeks, but these are the employees Sony wants. PlayStation is failing.
Believe me, I know a failing business when I see one. I've run hundreds. We need to band together to rip the stick out of the video game industry's ass and tell them these aren't the games we want. Oh, they just announced the game I want. Fuck Marathon. No, my problem is how many times are we going to go through this? Live service games are not sustainable. They can be really cool, but they are high-risk, high reward, and even then that reward is like filled with spiders.
It's just so deflating to see all these soulless projects pumped out, killing the studios that are working on them while all these companies are acting like it isn't feasible to release games any other way. It's so unfortunate because many of these products would be pretty all right if they didn't adhere to a blatant repetitive gameplay loop.
Suicide Squad actually has pretty fun movement and gunplay. Problem is, that's all it has. The game itself is so damn boring. You're doing the same thing over and over and over again. And seriously, a Suicide Squad live service game. Who the hell cares about Suicide Squad enough to keep coming back day in and day out? Oh, I got to log my shark time in. Multiverse has had so much potential as a Smash Brothers competitor, but it has so much live service funk where, oh, it's free to play, entirely online dependent, super grindy to get new characters. It gets to a point where I just don't have any fun with this at all. If this was a standard release with all characters available, some cool single player content to go through, and good multiplayer support, I would play it so much more. But that's just what Live Service is, virgin repellent. I don't know, man. I mean, live service games are meant to live on and get updates for years. What part of that sounds easy to all these companies who halfass it? Like, how many live service successes could be classified as a fluke? Like, Marvel Rivals, you see how much stuff they pumped into this game at launch? Like, yeah, of course it's going to do well.
The Heehaw slot machine would never.