To be, or not to be, that is the question:
Whether ’tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them. To die—to sleep—
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to: ’tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish’d. To die, to sleep—
To sleep—perchance to dream: ay, there’s the rub,
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come,
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Must give us pause—there’s the respect
That makes calamity of so long life.

The world’s mine oyster, which I with sword will open.
Men should be what they seem;
Or those that be not, would they might seem none.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
And therefore is wing’d Cupid painted blind.
The course of true love never did run smooth;
So let’s be thankful for our joyful griefs,
For sorrow’s lesson maketh wisdom grow.
I do desire we may be better strangers.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
What light through yonder window breaks?
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
That thou her maid art far more fair than she.

Out, out, brief candle!
Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor player
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage,
And then is heard no more. It is a tale
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Signifying nothing.
O brave new world, that has such people in’t!
We are such stuff as dreams are made on,
And our little life is rounded with a sleep.

The quality of mercy is not strain’d,
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
Upon the place beneath: it is twice blest;
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.
The evil that men do lives after them;
The good is oft interrèd with their bones.
Cowards die many times before their deaths;
The valiant never taste of death but once.

When shall we three meet again?
In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
When the hurlyburly’s done,
When the battle’s lost and won.
Fair is foul, and foul is fair:
Hover through the fog and filthy air.

All the world’s a stage,
And all the men and women merely players;
They have their exits and their entrances,
And one man in his time plays many parts,
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
Mewling and puking in the nurse’s arms.
Then the whining school-boy, with his satchel
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
Made to his mistress’ eyebrow.
Then a soldier, full of strange oaths,
And bearded like the pard, jealous in honor,
Sudden and quick in quarrel, seeking the bubble reputation
Even in the cannon’s mouth.

O, that this too, too solid flesh would melt,
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
Or that the Everlasting had not fix’d
His canon ’gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Seem to me all the uses of this world!

If music be the food of love, play on,
Give me excess of it; that, surfeiting,
The appetite may sicken, and so die.
That strain again! it had a dying fall:
O, it came o’er my ear like the sweet sound,
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
Stealing and giving odour.

Some are born great, some achieve greatness,
And some have greatness thrust upon ’em.
The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
Lord, what fools these mortals be!
Our doubts are traitors,
And make us lose the good we oft might win
By fearing to attempt.

My tongue will tell the anger of my heart,
Or else my heart concealing it will break.
O swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.

Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears;
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
The evil that men do lives after them;
The good is oft interrèd with their bones.
So let it be with Caesar. The noble Brutus
Hath told you Caesar was ambitious;
If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
And grievously hath Caesar answer’d it.

Cry ‘Havoc!’, and let slip the dogs of war.
The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
And thus the native hue of resolution
Is sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thought.

Sweet are the uses of adversity,
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head.
The robbed that smiles steals something from the thief.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Take each man’s censure, but reserve thy judgment.

The better part of Valour, is Discretion.
This above all: to thine own self be true,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
Et tu, Brute? Then fall, Caesar.

I am one who loved not wisely but too well.
Good night, good night! Parting is such sweet sorrow,
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
The rest is silence.
The time is out of joint; O cursed spite,
That ever I was born to set it right!

Reputation is an idle and most false imposition;
O, beware, my lord, of jealousy;
It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock
The meat it feeds on.
What’s done cannot be undone.
By the pricking of my thumbs,
Something wicked this way comes.
Out, damned spot! out, I say!
Yet who would have thought the old man
To have had so much blood in him?

Be not afraid of greatness:
Some are born great, some achieve greatness,
And some have greatness thrust upon them.
We are time’s subjects, and time bids be gone.
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
The man that hath no music in himself,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.

The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
But in ourselves, that we are underlings.
Men at some time are masters of their fates.
I dare do all that may become a man;
Who dares do more is none.
All that glisters is not gold;
Often have you heard that told.

The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
There is a tide in the affairs of men,
Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune;
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
Shall be my brother.

How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is
To have a thankless child!
Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
Let me have men about me that are fat,
Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o’ nights.